hi everyone
i'm joel and i'm a co-founder of
three box labs today i'm going to be
talking about ceramic
and how we see it open sourcing
the world's information and kind of
diving into
what we mean by programmable streams and
how it all relates to identity
cool so what is the world
of open source information like what
would that look like um
so we think that like um
we really need to de-silo of all
information in the world
or like a lot of information needs to be
decided
so how can we share information like
across or organizational or
application boundaries and it seems like
this kind of system needs to really be
based on public key uh cryptography
um like danielle kind of mentioned a
bunch
already um we we see this that this can
be achieved
with stateful streams and what this
really means
is streams of events and then processing
on top of that so we get a state
um and and in ceramic what this looks
like is that we have individual streams
that are separate from each other
and so you don't have to like compute
like a global state of the entire
network
um and yeah so this is kind of a minimal
build building block for
interoperable information and if we have
this we can kind of create a global
data environment where we can share
these streams
globally the commits or the events
of the logs of the streams can
though originate locally so i created my
online machine and it's like propagated
throughout the network
uh and ideally we also have like
multiple different
data structures that are supported and
i'll kind of
go get into that a little bit more soon
um so the goals of ceramic
is really to facilitate this in a
scalable way so
basically we want to be able to handle
the world's mutable information
um and obviously it would be preferable
if this is
quite low latency um
[Music]
we want we want it to be flexible so um
if we want to be able to support like a
bunch of different types of information
we can't really use like have one data
structure and like one state
representation it needs to be like
support for various different formats
and
types of data and streams and yeah
different ways to represent the state as
well
[Music]
um and if you compare if you look at a
blockchain
right now like uh they have
a global state which means that you can
have one big state machine and
everything needs to happen within that
state
and that's kind of cool in kind of the
world of
financial stuff you could do flash loans
and things like that which is
kind of to get it totally mind-blowing
um
but but if we're working with like
information we don't really need that
kind of
composability of messaging
in in the same way all the time so we
want to be able to have like local
consensus of
this these different streams
independently of each other
so we don't need to like coordinate
everything together at once
uh so yeah so we would use uh
consensus by stream and and potentially
they can also make
make this work offline uh yeah so
we're so this is kind of the goals of
surrounding so where we're at
right now so we have a you know public
network that is kind of global
uh has these local per stream consensus
and
[Music]
we're really working on right now is
like making
the the minute uh making that go live
and and kind of then focusing on like
scaling out this and like
allowing more different types of stream
uh processing and stuff um
all right so let's dive into like what
is a stream and
why is that what what do we want to do
with it um
so we we call them we like to refer to
them as like a
stream of commits and um essentially
this
you can think of the each commit as a an
event which is signed
and or it can also be like verifiable in
some other way
like a blockchain anchor uh but
essentially it's unit it's a commit that
contains some kind of data that
allows you to update the state of
um the state that the stream represents
we give each each of these streams like
a unique identifier
[Music]
i'm going to refer to the stream ids
currently in the ceramic implementation
they're called document ids
but streams since we're using the
streams language it's more appropriate
um and in theory these comments commit
streams can be like any type of ipld
data structure
uh so like any type of ipld dag
so it could be used to represent like
dags
um or just like straight you know append
only logs
currently in the ceramic implementation
uh we have like
one uh one log so there's no like
branching
and support yet there's something that
we're gonna add in the future
um yeah each stream is processed
independently so
you can kind of parallelize this quite
well
[Music]
uh yeah and here in to the right we have
an example of like
a genesis commit which is like the first
creation of the stream
and then like an anchor commit anchors
it into like a blockchain
and then signature commits contains like
patches
or other types of modifications or like
other types of like data events
and then there's stream processors and
and this really governs how
the state progresses as their new
commits or events they come in
and they define what is a valid commit
and they also define like
consensus rules if there's like a
divergence
or yeah different opposing views like
what what's
what's valid like is the signature from
[Music]
a d80 that's like allowed to make the
update or not
um and finally to like make this really
work
well especially in an environment where
we have the ids and we need
to have this kind of secure key rotation
that
danielle talked about we use
checkpointing
and and really this could be done in
various different ways
right now we anchor periodically into
ethereum and
uh these anchors can be matched we can
like take
updates from a bunch of different
streams and anchor them into
ethereum with like one transaction but
in there you can do it in other
blockchains or
potentially using some kind of committee
um so ceramic is a completely
decentralized network where
a ceramic node is based on ipfs and
ethereum so ipfs and ip lead store kind
of
the the commits and the stream and
ethereum to
do the anchoring uh then we use libidip
to gossip the tips of the stream so the
tips basically mean what's the latest
update
and i can also make queries for like hey
i have this stream id
like how can i can you give me the
latest update and i can verify
just an individual stream locally i
don't need to care about the whole
state of the entire network so we can
make extremely light clients
um but we have a global namesake space
and each
stream id is global so i can look that
up from anywhere
[Music]
streams can depend on other streams so
i'm gonna in an example later and talk
about we can have schemas
that are enforced on some streams as
they like
apply updates we can also have links to
between streams they can link each each
other in the state so we can like
kind of start creating a graph of
information
uh once these streams are being
processed
um and finally like how do we persist
the the state of uh or sorry the the
logs like these logs that keep growing
like
um how are they backed up so you have
like a bunch of different
options like you can store this log in
as three
uh or you can sort on a remote ipfs node
obviously it's stored on the local
ceramic ipfs node or you can back it up
to file point
or some other kind of data persistence
network
um so in ceramic we have this concept of
stream processors
or doctypes as they're currently called
in the implementation
there's two dock types that are
supported right now but you can
kind of implement your own custom so
tiles is use the json document
that optionally has this json schema
enforcement that i talked about before
so the json schema i can live in another
another tile and then be enforced once
you update the tile
and the conflict resolution we use here
for tiles is
if there are two separate branches
of of the tile the
commit log which we saw up here so the
two branches
of this log what essentially happens is
the the one branch that was like
anchored earliest
is the branch that will be the canonical
branch
and this also makes it possible to do
security
revocation uh the 10 link is interesting
because
in different blockchain systems so like
ethereum valcoin
and polkadot like cosmos you have
blockchain accounts but they're not
really the ids
but with a type 10 link we allow you to
like link
a blockchain account to a
um the id and this can be like
cryptographically proven
uh and it's pretty cool it works quite
nicely to just
tie together the the whole blockchain
ecosystem into like this
the ide ecosystem and
yeah you can create any type of custom
duct type right now you're limited to
this earliest anchor wins
um conflict resolution um
[Music]
uh but yeah that in the future we hope
to like make that into a
like a more broad um conflict resolution
strategy where you can
use things like crtts and stuff like
that to enable this to be used in the
more
kind of uh better you basically better
get a better
user experience out of out of the system
[Music]
all right so uh let's dive into identity
on ceramic
so uh the ids is the account model of
ceramic so
um in tiles uh and like the main way you
can access like the public and
like request signatures from a user in
the ceramic when you're creating
doctypes or when you're using tiles is
the 80s
and facilitators to request signatures
and decryption and stuff from the wallet
we have defined eip2844 which is a way
to like interact with the wallet request
signatures request this decryption and
ceramic is really dad agnostic so like
any
uh dad method that conforms to the
standard uh
plus minus like some some specifics of
so you can use the ids in a trustless
manner
um and we have some the id methods that
are
right now natively supported key did is
one of them it's like the most simple
d80 that's just like a public key pair
um 380 is a dld method that's built on
ceramic
using uh ceramic tile so it's just like
basically putting a
document into ceramic tile
uh recently we started working on
something called nft did and that's kind
of cool you can build
basically an identity that
[Music]
where the owner of the nft is the one
who has access to
write and read stuff so
you can basically have this transferable
or tradable identity
um which is quite neat and we're also
working with some
some some teams to add support for
org identities so like that's on chain
dowse or organizations so like noses
safe and molotow
to give those types of organizations
the 80s um and yes quickly
the way we represent signatures in
commits is using a
standard called like jose which is like
um
a standard for signed encrypted json
objects works quite
nicely with the 80s
and in the future it could be
potentially other uh signed data formats
that
work nicely with the ads as well but
thai jose works pretty well for now and
is standardized within ipfs and jose is
standardized within ietf
all right so what are some use cases
especially like as they relate to
identity
so publishing you can publish stuff and
they will get you know
you get that persistence of like things
being anchored on chains you get this
proof of publication which is useful for
your
like scientific publishing journalism
commenting is interesting because like a
lot of dows especially
in in the blockchain ecosystem
really want to be able to make comments
and know that they were made by the
right person
at the specific time so they can reason
about the governance process
and and related to that off-chain voting
is also like an implication that we have
been exploring a bunch so
do doing stuff like conviction voting
and quadratic coding
quadratic voting it's really important
to have like some kind of sense of
strong identity or like identity
reputation
um which kind of ties neatly into the
next thing which is identity index
and i won't really i don't think i
really have time to go into that but
uh michael is talking about that in his
talk right after this
um and just because like ceramics based
on
on these streams that you have some
processing on
you can imagine like a bunch of
different applications based on this
like
potentially like service orchestrations
you have some kind of global event logs
for
um things that are going on in in
different areas of the world potentially
um or yeah analytics like it's really
kind of
a lot of stuff that you could
potentially build on it
all right so uh ceramic
is currently in in a test net phase um
but we have an early launch program so
if you want to check it out
and you know try to build on it and be
one of the first people to
be on the mainnet you should check out
the early launch program
and yeah check out our documentation for
like diving in and
trying to build cool stuff on ceramic